In this video we're going to cover pagination.
So, pagination is useful for handling large amounts of data,
will show the user a small subset of data,
a page of data,
and then the user can click on the links
to view the other pages,
and you've seen this before on Google search results,
and so on.
So, let's look at some pagination concepts.
So, we query the database for a list of products,
and what we'll do is we'll show the user a page of data.
So, we don't show the user everything,
only a page of data at a time.
So, in this example, the page size is five.
And we only provide a count of the total elements,
for example, 100,000 products.
But we don't return 100,000 products.
We only return a small subset, or a page, of data.
We'll need to have pagination support
on the back-end, using Spring Boot.
Also, we'll need pagination support
on the front-end, using Angular.
Our Spring Boot back-end makes use of Spring Data REST,
and Spring Data REST provides pagination support
out of the box, yes!
So, you can go to the link here, on the slide.
It'll redirect you
to the official Spring Data REST documentation,
and you can see all the information about pagination support
in Spring Data REST.
By default, Spring Data REST returns 20 elements,
and we can customize this by passing in parameters.
So, we can make use of the page parameter,
that's the page number to access, it's zero-based.
We can use the size parameter,
so this is the size of the page to return,
basically, the items per page.
Alrighty, so let's go ahead
and look at some pagination examples.
So, to get the first page with the page size of 10,
we give our REST API,
and then we have page equals zero and size equals 10.
Remember, pages are zero-based,
so the first page is at position zero.
Then to get the second page, with a page size of 10,
we have page equals one and size equals 10.
So, here the second page is at position one,
because everything is zero-based.
When using Spring Data REST,
the response metadata has valuable information.
So, in the JSON response, you have the array of products,
but also there's a section here
that has information about the page.
So, here we have size 10.
That's the size of this page.
And then we have totalElements.
That's the grand total of all elements in the database
for this query.
But we're not returning all the elements,
just the count for informational purposes only.
Then they also give you the total pages that are available.
And then they'll specify the current page number
that you're viewing in this JSON response.
So, let's look at a quick demo here in our browser.
So, I'll make use of page equals zero, size 10.
So, there's our JSON,
and so up top, the array of products.
But all the way at the bottom here of this JSON response,
we have that metadata, which is very valuable.
So, there you go: page, size 10, elements, pages, number.
So, that information comes back in the JSON response
when you make use of Spring Data REST.
And we can do a similar example here.
So, page equals one, size of 10.
We scroll all the way down to the bottom again,
and so we have the metadata:
size, elements, pages, and number, one.
So, we're viewing the second page,
but number one because it's zero-based.
All right, so that's the piece, there, on the metadata,
and why don't you use that in our application.
Okay, so pagination with Angular.
There are many pagination solutions available for Angular.
We'll make use
of a popular component framework called ng-bootstrap.
So, the link is here on the screen.
And basically, it's just a collection
of Bootstrap widgets built the Angular way,
so you can use these widgets in an Angular application.
They're designed specifically
to take advantage of the Angular framework.
So, this component framework has a number of components,
like accordions.
They have datepickers.
You can make use of progress bars with labels.
You can also make use of pagination controls, and so on.
And so, we'll actually make use of the pagination components
in this given video series.
So, the pagination component has a number of parameters.
It has the page, the page number to access.
It's one-based, ooh!
The pageSize, the size of the page, defaults to 10.
The collectionSize, meaning the total number of items.
And then pageChange.
That's the event handler for page change events.
And here's a basic example
of using the pagination component.
We make use of NG pagination,
and we set up our parameters,
so this component will generate links for pagination.
And we'll actually create the code
to combine this for our project,
and so we'll do all of this work from scratch
in the upcoming videos.
And so, you'll see how this works for our given project.